===Actions

What are actions exactly?
Datatypes are acting like built-in classes, actions are their methods.
Actions are expensives, so when the polymorphism is limited, or when the specific code 
for each supported datatype is small enough, we chose to implement the feature as a 
native rather than an action.
Basically, actions cover three domains: arithmetic operations, basic series manipulations and I/O accesses.

How do actions work?
On the SO chat in the room red-development-team Richard Nyberg asked about actions:

RN:I'm a bit confused about the initialization in boot.red.
Especially by make: make action! .... Which make action is used before that and which is it set to?

DK:There's a trick used there by the compiler to escape the chicken and egg problem.
MAKE is predefined in the compiler internals https://github.com/red/red/blob/master/compiler.r#L74, 
so that the make: make action! ... expression works. 
This expression creates an entry for MAKE in the runtime environment only 
(while other function definitions are also collected by the compiler internally).
So the first make: is creating the MAKE word and MAKE action in the runtime environment 
mainly for dynamic code use cases (typically, code processed by the interpreter).
The compiler also collects such kind of definitions, but it doesn't need actions in the 
runtime environment as it will generate direct calls to underlying Red/System static version 
of these actions (implemented in actions.reds). 
Let me know if I'm not clear enough.

RN:So it's there to ensure that the MAKE word exists and is bound to the MAKE action in the 
global runtime environment? I think I get it. :)

DK:I wasn't accurate enough in so that ... expression works,
you should read so that ... expression compiles.
Exactly.

DK:One thing that is probably confusing is that the compiler has to 
generate extra code and structures to please the interpreter (and the future JIT-compiler).


AvH:How do you handle a refinement on an action?

DK:The same way as for natives. ;-)
Refinements are encoded on the native stack as integers following the order by which they 
are defined in the spec block. 
-1 means "not used", 0 or positive value gives the position on the Red stack  
for optional arguments.
For examples of handling refinements in actions, see runtime/actions.reds.


insert* is just the higher-level entry point for the INSERT action. Both the compiler and 
interpreter will invoke it with the refinement values set according to the calling expression.

The trailing * is a convention used in Red runtime to refer to a function that takes argument 
from the (Red) stack. The version without * is the action version that passes arguments directly.

